Salesforce---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Cloud --servers that are accessed over the Internet, and the software and databases that run on those servers

1.Salesforce is Worlds #1 CRM- Customer Relationship Management  Why CRM is required - In order to do sales and services
2.Salesforce is a Public Cloud.
Types of Cloud ?
 1.Public Cloud
 2.Private Cloud
 3.Hybrid cloud
 4.Salesforce is a Public Cloud

3.Multi-tenant Environment - Multiple users sharing the same environment
4.Saleforce is subscription basis Model
5.Database - A place where we organize the data 

Cloud Computing means storing and acessing data and programs over the internet instead of your computer's hard drive.
Types of Cloud Computing :-
1.Software as a service (SaaS) - Saleforce
2.Platform as a service(PaaS) - Force.com 
3.IAAS - IaaS, or Infrastructure as a Service (AWS)

API Name - Application Programming Interface Name
Org is short for organization, and it refers to a specific instance of Salesforce.
What are the Standard objects already present in Salesforce?
1.Account
2.Activity
3.Contact
4.Opportunities

What are the Standard Fields already present in Salesforce?
There are four Salesforce standard fields in every custom object that are Created By, Last Modified By, Owner and 
the Name field created at the time of the creation of the object. 
These fields cannot be deleted or edited and they are always required.
1.Owner
2.Created by
3.Last Modified by
4.Name field created at the time of the creation of the object

Salesforce Standard App :- It is a group of tabs and objects.
Objects are tables in the Salesforce database that store a particular kind of information.
Records are rows in object database tables
Fields are columns in object database tables.
App - Group of tabs
New - Edit Page Layout
Record - Detail Page Layout
list view

formula field - run time calculate

What are the things we can acheive from page layouts?
we can add new fields
we can adjust fields

Passport Type
IF (Age__c >= 18, 'Major Passport','Minor Passport')

Adress__c - Because it is  Custom Object. 

Parent - single
Child - Multiple

Lookup Relationship - 
-Child and Parent exist independently (field is not required and can be null or blank)Parent Not Mandatory 
- Losely Coupled 
- Deletion of Parent does not delete Child records
- Rollup summary cannot created


Master Detail Realtionship 
-Child cannot exist without Parent (field is required and can’t be null or blank) Mandatory - Parent Mandatory 
- Tightly Coupled 
- Cascade delete (deleting Parent deletes all Child records) 
-Rollup summary can create

What is Reparenting?
Reparenting allows you to edit the parent details of the Object, which is not allowed to edit

1 CLient
2 Master Detail Relationship 
 Junction object  - ALways use master detailed relationship
 
What is Junction Object in Salesforce?
You can build Many-to-Many relationships using Junction Objects on the Salesforce platform. 
Object is a custom object that enables you to link a custom object with a large 
number of child records and link each child record to a large number of parent objects.
Example-one student can enroll in multiple courses, and one course can have multiple students.